Add docs on auth (#6859)
microsoft/FluidFramework: docs/content/docs/build/auth.md

---
title: "Authentication & authorization"
menuPosition: 3
editor: tylerbutler
---

Security is critical to modern web applications. Fluid Framework, as a part of your web application architecture, is an
important piece of infrastructure to secure. Fluid Framework is a layered architecture, and auth-related concepts are
primarily a concern of the *driver* layer (see [Architecture]({{< relref "architecture.md" >}})). This means that the
specifics of authentication could differ based on the Fluid service and its driver.

> The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service but also applies to

Reviewer: The acronym is likely going to be knowledge that the developer has by the time they reach this doc but I don't think we mention it specifically in this one before we refer to it so it might be helpful to just add that in here as well
```suggestion
The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service (FRS) but also applies to
```

[Tinylicious]({{< relref "tinylicious.md" >}}). Other Fluid services may differ.

## Azure Fluid Relay service

{{< include file="_includes/frs-onboarding.html" safeHTML=true >}}

> Each FRS tenant you create is assigned a *tenant ID* and *secret key*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each FRS tenant you create is assigned a *tenant ID* and its own unique *tenant secret key*.
```

> The secret key is a *shared secret*. Your app/service knows it, and FRS knows it. This means that you can sign data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret key is a *shared secret*. Your app/service knows it, FRS knows it, and since it is uniquely tied to your tenant, its usage guarantees that any request signed by it are coming from an authorized user of this tenant . This means that you can sign data
```

Reviewer 2: +1 on Sumedh's edit. We should make it clear that these secrets are tenant specific.

using that secret key, and FRS can verify that it is you who signed those requests because it also has that key.

In summary, the secret key is how FRS knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because
once FRS can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's
important that the secret is handled securely. **Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application to
FRS.**

Now you have a mechanism to establish trust. You can sign some data, send it to FRS, and FRS can validate whether the
data is signed properly, and if so, it can trust it. Fortunately, there's an industry standard way method for encoding
authentication and user-related data with a signature for verification: JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

{{% callout note %}}

The specifics of JWTs are beyond the scope of this article. For more details about the JWT standard see
<https://jwt.io/introduction>.

{{% /callout %}}

> JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON data that can include additional data about a or the rights conferred by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON data that can include additional data about the rights conferred by the
```

JWT. The data within the token is readable by a service like FRS.

The next question is: what data should you send?

You need to send your *tenant ID* so that FRS can look up the right secret key to validate your request. You need to
send the *container ID* (called `documentId` in the JWT) so FRS knows which container the request is about. Finally, you
need to also set the *scopes (permissions)* that the request is permitted to use -- this allows you to establish your
own user permissions model if you wish.

```json {linenos=inline,hl_lines=["5-6",9]}
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}.{
  "documentId": "azureFluidDocumentId",

>   "scopes": [ "doc:read", "doc:write", "summary:write" ],

Reviewer: The JWT token would also include the user object itself so perhaps we could also include that here. And in the paragraph above, perhaps we can mention that it is this mapping between the user object and the scopes that allows that permission model to be set
```suggestion
  "scopes": [ "doc:read", "doc:write", "summary:write" ],
  "user": {
    "name": "TestUser",
    "id": "Test-Id-123"
  },
```

provider. This enables you to store the FRS secret on a secure server. Your application calls the Function to generate
tokens rather than signing them locally like the `InsecureTokenProvider` does.

An example of such a function is available at <https://github.com/microsoft/FrsAzureFunctions>. There is a
corresponding `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` for this Function in the `@fluid-experimental/frs-client` package.

## Adding custom data to tokens

Why would you do this? How does it work?

## Connecting user auth to Fluid service auth

You do this in your token provider. For example, you could make your Azure Function token provider authenticated. If an
application tries to call the Function it would fail unless authenticated with your auth system. If you're using Azure
Active Directory, for example, you might create an AAD application for your Azure Function, and tie it to your
organization's auth system.

In this case the user would sign into your application using AAD, through which you would obtain a token to use to call
your Azure Function. The Azure Function itself behaves the same, but it's now only accessible to people who have also

> authenticated with AAD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticated with AAD.

Since the Azure Function is now your entrypoint into obtaining a valid token, only users who have properly authenticated to the Function will then be able to relay that token to FRS from their client application. This two-step approach allows you to use your own custom authentication process in conjunction with FRS.
```

---
title: "Authentication & authorization"
menuPosition: 3
editor: tylerbutler
---

Security is critical to modern web applications. Fluid Framework, as a part of your web application architecture, is an
important piece of infrastructure to secure. Fluid Framework is a layered architecture, and auth-related concepts are implemented based on the Fluid service it's connecting to. This means that the specifics of authentication will differ based on the Fluid service.

The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service but also applies to
[Tinylicious]({{< relref "tinylicious.md" >}}). Other Fluid services may differ.

## Azure Fluid Relay service

{{< include file="_includes/frs-onboarding.html" safeHTML=true >}}

Each FRS tenant you create is assigned a *tenant ID* and its own unique *tenant secret key*.

The secret key is a *shared secret*. Your app/service knows it, and FRS knows it. This means that you can sign data
using that secret key, and FRS can verify that it is you who signed those requests because it also has that key.

> In summary, the secret key is how the Azure Fluid Relay service knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because once the Azure Fluid Relay service can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's important that the secret is handled securely. **Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application when communicating with Azure Fluid Relay.**

Reviewer 2: Can we make this really clear.

```suggestion
In summary, the secret key is how the Azure Fluid Relay service knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because once the Azure Fluid Relay service can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's important that the secret is handled securely.

{{% callout warning %}}

Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application when communicating with Azure Fluid Relay.

{{% callout note %}}
```

> In summary, the secret key is how the Azure Fluid Relay service knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because once the Azure Fluid Relay service can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's important that the secret is handled securely. **Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application when communicating with Azure Fluid Relay.**

Author: ```suggestion
In summary, the secret key is how the Azure Fluid Relay service knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because once the Azure Fluid Relay service can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's important that the secret is handled securely.

{{% callout warning %}}
Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application when communicating with Azure Fluid Relay service.
{{% /callout %}}
```

> Now you have a mechanism to establish trust. You can sign some data, send it to FRS, and FRS can validate whether the
> data is signed properly, and if so, it can trust it. Fortunately, there's an industry standard way method for encoding
> authentication and user-related data with a signature for verification: JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you have a mechanism to establish trust. You can sign some data, send it to the Azure Fluid Relay service, and the service can validate whether the
data is signed properly, and if so, it can trust it. Fortunately, there's an industry standard way method for encoding
authentication and user-related data with a signature for verification: JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

```

{{% callout note %}}

The specifics of JWTs are beyond the scope of this article. For more details about the JWT standard see
<https://jwt.io/introduction>.

{{% /callout %}}

> JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON data that can include additional data about the rights conferred by the

Author: ```suggestion
JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON that can include additional information about the rights conferred by the
```

JWT. The Azure Fluid Relay service uses signed JWTs for establishing trust with calling clients.

> The next question is: what data should you send?

Reviewer 2: Should this be a Heading? This article reads like a blog post more than a tech doc 😄 . @tylerbutler , I know how you love blogposts for learning.

Author: Yeah, I can't help myself. I have too much personality!

Reviewer 2: One thing that's throwing me a bit is the word "data" when I think of data I'm thinking of the data I'm storing in SharedMap. The developer only needs to think about signing the metadata required to authenticate the user. Fluid will ensure we are creating a secure connection to the Azure Fluid Relay service.

You need to send your *tenant ID* so that FRS can look up the right secret key to validate your request. You need to
send the *container ID* (called `documentId` in the JWT) so FRS knows which container the request is about. Finally, you
need to also set the *scopes (permissions)* that the request is permitted to use -- this allows you to establish your

> own user permissions model if you wish.

Reviewer 2: I think the phrasing might be better if it's more like you need to sign these things and provide it to the `frs-client` where it will do the right thing.

Reviewer 2: Or maybe it's actually you need to write a token provider... But either way the developer is not responsible for sending things. Simply including them to be sent.

---
title: "Authentication & authorization"
menuPosition: 3
editor: tylerbutler
---

> Security is critical to modern web applications. Fluid Framework, as a part of your web application architecture, is an
> important piece of infrastructure to secure. Fluid Framework is a layered architecture, and auth-related concepts are
> primarily a concern of the *driver* layer (see [Architecture]({{< relref "architecture.md" >}})). This means that the
> specifics of authentication could differ based on the Fluid service and its driver.

Reviewer 2: I think it's clearer to specific to the service instead of the driver. I could imagine a deep dive doc here describing how auth works relative to the layers. From the consumers point of view they have a service-client package and we are only making them responsible for that.

 ```suggestion
Security is critical to modern web applications. Fluid Framework, as a part of your web application architecture, is an
important piece of infrastructure to secure. Fluid Framework is a layered architecture, and auth-related concepts are implemented based on the Fluid service it's connecting to. This means that the specifics of authentication will differ based on the Fluid service.
```

> The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service (FRS) but also applies to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service but also applies to
```

> The information below is based on Azure Fluid Relay service (FRS) but also applies to
> [Tinylicious]({{< relref "tinylicious.md" >}}). Other Fluid services may differ.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't apply to tinylicious. tinylicious is inherently insecure by design and there's no tenant secret. Probably worth having two sections? 

```suggestion
```

## Azure Fluid Relay service

{{< include file="_includes/frs-onboarding.html" safeHTML=true >}}

> Each FRS tenant you create is assigned a *tenant ID* and its own unique *tenant secret key*.

Reviewer 2: We should confirm the exact phrasing for `tenant ID` and `tenant secret key` to make sure it's the same in the Azure Portal/CLI.

The secret key is a *shared secret*. Your app/service knows it, and FRS knows it. This means that you can sign data

> using that secret key, and FRS can verify that it is you who signed those requests because it also has that key.

Reviewer 2: @tanviraumi to confirm if this is actually a *shared secret* or a *public/private key*. The main difference is if the secret can be used to both encrypt and decrypt the JWT.

Author: Great point.

Reviewer 2: Tanvir confirmed it's a shared secret.

> In summary, the secret key is how FRS knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because
> once FRS can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's
> important that the secret is handled securely. **Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application to
> FRS.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, the secret key is how the Azure Fluid Relay service knows that requests are coming from your app or service. This is critical, because once the Azure Fluid Relay service can trust that it's *your app* making the requests, it can trust the data you send. This is also why it's important that the secret is handled securely. **Anyone with access to the secret can impersonate your application when communicating with Azure Fluid Relay.**
```

Now you have a mechanism to establish trust. You can sign some data, send it to FRS, and FRS can validate whether the
data is signed properly, and if so, it can trust it. Fortunately, there's an industry standard way method for encoding
authentication and user-related data with a signature for verification: JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

{{% callout note %}}

The specifics of JWTs are beyond the scope of this article. For more details about the JWT standard see
<https://jwt.io/introduction>.

{{% /callout %}}

> JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON data that can include additional data about the rights conferred by the
> JWT. The data within the token is readable by a service like FRS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON data that can include additional data about the rights conferred by the
JWT. The Azure Fluid Relay service uses signed JWTs for establishing trust with calling clients.
```

{{% callout note %}}

The specifics of JWTs are beyond the scope of this article. For more details about the JWT standard see
<https://jwt.io/introduction>.

{{% /callout %}}

JSON Web Tokens are a signed bit of JSON that can include additional information about the rights conferred by the
JWT. The Azure Fluid Relay service uses signed JWTs for establishing trust with calling clients.

The next question is: what data should you send?

You need to send your *tenant ID* so that FRS can look up the right secret key to validate your request. You need to
send the *container ID* (called `documentId` in the JWT) so FRS knows which container the request is about. Finally, you
need to also set the *scopes (permissions)* that the request is permitted to use -- this allows you to establish your
own user permissions model if you wish.

```json {linenos=inline,hl_lines=["5-6",9]}
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}.{
  "documentId": "azureFluidDocumentId",
  "scopes": [ "doc:read", "doc:write", "summary:write" ],
  "user": {
    "name": "TestUser",
    "id": "Test-Id-123"
  },
  "iat": 1599098963,
  "exp": 1599098963,
  "tenantId": "AzureFluidTenantId",
  "ver": "1.0"
}.[Signature]
```

> Every request to FRS must be signed with a valid JWT. The FRS documentation contains additional details about [how to
> sign the token][1]. Fluid delegates the responsibility of creating and signing these tokens to a *token provider.*
> 
> [1]: (https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#how-can-you-generate-an-azure-fluid-relay-token)
> 
> {{% callout title="More information" %}}
> 
> * [Introduction to JWTs](https://jwt.io/introduction)
> * [Payload claims in FRS](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#payload-claims)
> * [Scopes in FRS](need a url)
> * [Signing requests](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#how-can-you-generate-an-azure-fluid-relay-token)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every request to Azure Fluid Relay must be signed with a valid JWT. The Azure Fluid Relay documentation contains additional details about [how to
sign the token][1]. Fluid delegates the responsibility of creating and signing these tokens to a *token provider.*

[1]: (https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#how-can-you-generate-an-azure-fluid-relay-token)

{{% callout title="More information" %}}

* [Introduction to JWTs](https://jwt.io/introduction)
* [Payload claims in Azure Fluid Relay](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#payload-claims)
* [Scopes in Azure Fluid Relay](need a url)
* [Signing requests](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-fluid-preview-pr/blob/main/azure-fluid-relay-preview-pr/articles/howtos/fluid-jwtoken.md#how-can-you-generate-an-azure-fluid-relay-token)
```

{{% /callout %}}

## The token provider

> A token provider is responsible for creating and signing tokens that the Fluid runtime then uses to make requests to the
> service (FRS in this case). You are expected to provide your own token provider implementation for most scenarios.
> However, Fluid provides an `InsecureTokenProvider` that accepts your FRS tenant secret and returns signed tokens. This
> token provider is useful for testing, but in production scenarios you should use a more secure token provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A token provider is responsible for creating and signing tokens that the `@fluid-experimental/frs-client` uses to make requests to the
Azure Fluid Relay service. You are required to provide your own secure token provider implementation.
However, Fluid provides an `InsecureTokenProvider` that accepts your FRS tenant secret and returns signed tokens. This
token provider is useful for testing, but in production scenarios you must use a secure token provider.
```

> ### A secure serverless token provider

Reviewer 2: This seems like a great blob post that we can link to!

Author: I'll leave this as unwritten for now.

> One option for building a secure token provider is to create a serverless Azure Function and expose it as a token
> provider. This enables you to store the FRS secret on a secure server. Your application calls the Function to generate
> tokens rather than signing them locally like the `InsecureTokenProvider` does.
> 
> An example of such a function is available at <https://github.com/microsoft/FrsAzureFunctions>. There is a
> corresponding `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` for this Function in the `@fluid-experimental/frs-client` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One option for building a secure token provider is to create a serverless Azure Function and expose it as a token
provider. This enables you to store the *tenant secret key* on a secure server. Your application calls the Function to generate tokens rather than signing them locally like the `InsecureTokenProvider` does.

An example of such a function is available at <https://github.com/microsoft/FrsAzureFunctions>. There is a
corresponding `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` for this Function in the `@fluid-experimental/frs-client` package.
```

## Adding custom data to tokens

Why would you do this? How does it work?

> ## Connecting user auth to Fluid service auth

Reviewer 2: Blog Post # 2 in the series!!!

You do this in your token provider. For example, you could make your Azure Function token provider authenticated. If an
application tries to call the Function it would fail unless authenticated with your auth system. If you're using Azure
Active Directory, for example, you might create an AAD application for your Azure Function, and tie it to your
organization's auth system.

In this case the user would sign into your application using AAD, through which you would obtain a token to use to call
your Azure Function. The Azure Function itself behaves the same, but it's now only accessible to people who have also
authenticated with AAD.

> Since the Azure Function is now your entrypoint into obtaining a valid token, only users who have properly authenticated to the Function will then be able to relay that token to FRS from their client application. This two-step approach allows you to use your own custom authentication process in conjunction with FRS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the Azure Function is now your entrypoint into obtaining a valid token, only users who have properly authenticated to the Function will then be able to relay that token to FRS from their client application. This two-step approach allows you to use your own custom authentication process in conjunction with the Azure Fluid Relay service.
```
